added few docs (#36)
livecycle/preevy: site/docs/intro/under-the-hood.md

sidebar_position: 4
title: Under the hood
---
## Provisioning preview environments

When provisioning a new environment using the `up` command, `preevy` does the following:
- Reads for default configuration and relevant keys from the current profile store.
- Calculates environment name based on git branch or uses the `--id` flag.
- Uses the local aws configuration to provision a new Lightsail VM.
- Reads SSH keypair from profile to access the VM, if necessary, generate a new one.
- Connects to the VM using SSH and setup Docker.
- Reads the compose file and copies local volume mounts to the VM.
- Augments the compose deployment with a helper service, `tunnel-agent`, responsible for connecting to the [tunnel server](/tunnel-server/overview.md).
- Runs the application using Docker Compose with `--build` while using the local build context.
- The `tunnel-agent` is inspecting the network configuration of all deployed services and create a tunnel for each service.
- Fetch the urls from tunnel-agent and output them to the end user.

## Profile configuration

> Preevy profile provide a mechanism for storing and sharing configuration and keys between different machines (multiple developers and/or CI Jobs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The preevy configuration and state can be shared using the Preevy profiles store. This allows sharing of environments between different CI jobs, or different developers, without repeating the setup procedures. Because URLs for an environments are based on the Preevy state, it also means that URLs are stable between CI runs.
```

Author: updated

> The profile storage consists of multiple tar archives that can be stored locally or in a remote storage provider. (S3 is the only supported remote storage implementation at the moment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The profile storage can be stored on s3 for easy sharing. If for some reason s3 cannot be used, the profile can also be stored on the local filesystem and copied manually.
```

Author: updated

:::note

> Profile store doesn't contains any cloud provider credentials.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Profile store doesn't contain any cloud provider credentials.
```

> When using `preevy` CLI, the user need to have a local cloud configuration (using `aws login` or `aws configure`, or environment variables) with the required permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `preevy` CLI always uses the local AWS credential chain (e.g, from environment variables, AWS profile, EC2 role), which needs to have the appropriate permissions.
```

Author: done

> When using `preevy` CLI, the user need to have a local cloud configuration (using `aws login` or `aws configure`, or environment variables) with the required permissions.

Reviewer: maybe add a link to the required permissions?

Author: will add

:::

Each profile has a location specifier that indicate where the profile data is stored, for example: `s3://preevy-config/profile1?region=us-east-1` (refers to a profile stored on S3, on `preevy-config` bucket in the region `us-east-1` under `profile1` path).

This profile can be imported using `preevy init --from s3://preevy-config/profile1?region=us-east-1`
All available profiles can be listed using `preevy profile ls` command.

## Components

#### [CLI](packages/cli)

The CLI is a node.js program responsible for:

- Provisioning and tearing down VMs.
- Exposing environments' state and URLs to the end user.
- Storing & accessing profile data. (settings, keys, etc...)
- Setting up a VM with Docker tooling.
- Syncing Compose source code and local volumes.
- Running the application and installing daemon for connecting to the tunneling service.

For usage examples, you can go over the [CLI reference](/cli-reference.md)

#### [Tunnel server](packages/tunnel-server)

> The tunnel server is a node.js base server responsible for exposing friendly HTTPS URLs for the Compose services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tunnel server is a node.js based server responsible for exposing friendly HTTPS URLs for the Compose services.
```

sidebar_position: 4
title: Under the hood
---
## Provisioning preview environments

When provisioning a new environment using the `preevy up` command the following steps are taken:

> - `preevy` profile store is read for default configuration and relevant keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A profile store is read for default configuration and relevant keys.
```

> - `preevy` profile store is read for default configuration and relevant keys.

Reviewer: Some of these points starts with the active voice `preevy does...` or `the CLI` and some with the passive `something is done`.
I suggest using the active voice with an implicit actor:

- Calculates an environment ID
- Creates a machine
- Installs docker...

Author: done

> - If `--id` flag is not specified, the CLI will try to extract the environment ID from git context. (`branch`)

Reviewer: - branch is not a code word :)
- add `the` and remove `the`

```suggestion
- If the `--id` flag is not specified, the CLI will try to extract the environment ID from the git branch.
```

- A new Lightsail VM is created based on the local AWS configuration.
- If necessary, a SSH keypair for accessing the machine is created and stored in the profile.
- After the VM is created, `preevy` connect to the VM using SSH and runs setup script to configure Docker.

> - `preevy`analyzes the Compose file, copy local volume mounts to the VM and update volume paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `preevy` reads the compose file and copies local volume mounts to the VM.
```

Author: done

> - `preevy`configure a tunnel-agent that is responsible for connecting to the tunneling service and add it to the Compose deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Augments the compose deployment with a helper service, `tunnel-agent`, responsible for connecting to the tunneling service.
```

- Fetch the urls from tunnel-agent and output them to the end user.

## Profile configuration

`preevy` profile provide a mechanism for storing and sharing configuration and state between different machines. This allows sharing of environments between different CI jobs, or different developers.
Using a shared profile ensure consistent configuration and stable URLs between different CI runs.

The profile data can be stored on AWS s3 for easy sharing. If for some reason s3 cannot be used, the profile can also be stored on the local filesystem and copied manually.

:::note
Profile store doesn't contain any cloud provider credentials.  
The `preevy` CLI always uses the local AWS credential chain (e.g, from environment variables, AWS profile, EC2 role), which needs to have the [appropriate permissions](/drivers/aws-lightsail).
:::

Each profile has a location specifier that indicate where the profile data is stored, for example: `s3://preevy-config/profile1?region=us-east-1` (refers to a profile stored on S3, on `preevy-config` bucket in the region `us-east-1` under `profile1` path).

This profile can be imported using `preevy init --from s3://preevy-config/profile1?region=us-east-1`

> All available profiles can be listed using `preevy profile ls` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available profiles can be listed using the command `preevy profile ls`.
```
